Farzad H. fled from Afghanistan.
In summer 2015 he moved into the emergency accommodation in Hangar 5 of the former airport.
In our house in Afghanistan
we had three rooms.
One bathroom, the toilet was separate.
It was an old house.
It was about 5 to 10 minutes
from our garden.
In our garden there was
a small well.
It had an engine in it
which pumped the water up,
and that’s how we watered the trees
and sprayed each other with water.
That was a lot of fun.
I never thought about Germany.
I never thought I would suddenly
not be in Herat anymore, but here.
My father got cancer
and he died.
My mother and I remained.
After a while she developed a heart condition.
Then she died as well.
And I remained there by myself.
At the social welfare office they registered us
and gave us an ID card.
I was given an address
and told to go there.
Tempelhof.
If I was to go back to Afghanistan,
my life would definitely be in danger.
I don’t know what is going to become of me in the future.
Or what is going to happen tomorrow or in one hour.
My life is up in the air
because my application for refugee status was refused.
Did you often fly kites in Afghanistan?
Yes, on the roof.
And on a big square.
I have lots of dreams.
Staying here,
renting a flat
that I pay for myself.
You don’t know what’s going to happen.
I don’t know if these wishes will come true.